---
layout: post
title: Leaps in Consciousness
image: /img/uploads/jr-korpa-zcusa67rlem-unsplash.jpg
tags: NDE, Spiritually transformative experiences
carousel: true
---
Remembering some stand out moments of my childhood, there are some incidents which stand out. Early memories are faint but they exist strongly. One of them is of my Maternal home. 

This home which exist in Nagpur, had many rooms. My loving Grand Mumma and Grand Papa lived there. I felt safe and felt protected. One of my favourite rooms was my grandfather's study room. This study room was very tiny . It had a relaxing chair and my grand fathers books. It was also used by my Grand mother's brother  Berti Uncle." He loved me and I even have a picture with him. I would play alone in this room. I was never afraid then. I remember playing around Jesus and running around him. I don't know whether it was an illusion or it really happened. I could feel very happy and loved in that moment,"

The second incident happened when I was around 8 yrs old. I had a slight temperature. This happened in Mumbai. We were living in Government colony. I was always at my neighbour's house. I called my neighbour" Aai". Aai had one bed in the bedroom. This bed was higher than normal. There was a photograph of Jesus just on the wall against which the bed was pl. I was in deep sleep when I saw a hand coming from Jesus and it was going to touch me when i woke up with a start. I started crying. It was so real. I should have been happy, thinking that it was perhaps a blessing   The lines on the hand were of my Aai's and i was thinking how could that be. It could very well mean that Aai's blessings were with me always.

A﻿s I grew up I had another incident. I was 16 then and had gone for a picnic with my cousins. I had a migraine and we came back early. My brother and me were sleeping in a room on the first level. At night i felt extremely thirsty. I woke my brother and told him that i was thirsty. He got up and took me down to Grand mumma. Grand mother asked me to sleep next to her, I was given water and then i slept. I was holding my Grand mothers tummy it felt soft. I don't know what happened next. I opened my eyes three days later in Nagpur Medical Hospital. I heard the adults talking, that i was in a coma for 3 days. They said my temperature would not come down. Many Doctors came and treated me. Then they said that I had to be moved to a hospital. I was told that when they were getting me out to take me to the hospital, I looked at the tree and went in circles and two people had to hold me . I dont remember this at all. When I regained consciousness, the Doctor was worried that I would lose my memory. I recognised everybody except my Dad and my cousin. I could see them on the second day after waking up. I could not see them at all. although they were there.

The big lesson here is that what people saw as suffering, but i had no memory of any suffering. Which means that when we see bad things happening like accidents or illness, we actually don't suffer as we  are not in a state of consciousness or as some people say that they leave their body upon impact in a car accident. they float above the accident and see beautiful places. They experience peace which cannot be described. They than decide whether to come back or go.

When I lost my father, it was very traumatic for me. I went into depression and just felt that the person who loved me so much is not there and the world is empty. I prayed and aske him to show himself to me, so I could go on. Then I forgot everything and I was trying very hard to come to terms with what had happened. One evening we had gone out and we came back. I got down and opened the lock of the house. There was a smaller room and then the Lounge. When I entered the lounge, I saw my Daddy's form sitting on the chair and reading a book. He was wearing the same white soft kurta he always wore and a blue lungi( a soft cloth that men wear by tying it to their waist. He looked translucent but I could make out that it was him. He disappeared in an instant but it had registered My son who was 8 yrs old had a friend and the friend also saw Daddy reading, in another room. 

One night I woke up at 2 .00 am as I had to change my younger son's nappy. I was changing his nappy when a  **jewel like light started** moving on his t shirt. It hovered on his T shirt for some time. I was trying to wake my husband to show him the jewel like Light but my husband was fast asleep. After some time, the light disappeared. 

When I read the book " *Many Masters, Many lives"* this book mentioned the jewel like light, like a form of energy of our loved ones. Consciousness goes on. But where we are the planet Earth is planet of fear, doubt, disbelief. Many different energies exist. People are self centred and only some people are loving and kind. So I don't expect anyone to believe me because I don't need to convince anybody.

If you have a feedback connect with me via email : **Sapnayadav@gmail.com**