---
layout: post
title:  Bkah
description:
date:   2024-03-12 15:01:35 +0300
author: kalyani
image:  '/images/06.jpg'
tags:   [Featured]
tags_color: '#618770'
---
What a ride!
As a confluence of passions—my Spectrum ZX in the eighties, coding games in basic and assembly when I was 11,
soldering radios on my hand-crafted PCBs, and my mechanical engineering undergrad—I decided to start a
robotics company. I wanted to do that from a place of knowledge and build a team of peers with excellence.
I was 48 and with two kids, Maria and Antonio, in college when I was accepted to the Masters of Robotics
Systems Development (MRSD) at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU). I was elated and prepared, but given my age
and career stage, it crossed my mind that this was some kind of experiment by the admissions committee. I
wanted to prove them right and this is how I did it. Hopefully, it will inspire future students:
Super Powers
Sleep well and unlock your full potential by using 100% of your faculties. You won’t be yawning on people’s faces
and be a lot more fun to be around. I never put on an all-nighter and was fresh every morning, hopping on my
bike, sun or snow, and riding to campus.
I regretted every time I broke this rule. A few times, I spent a few hours late trying to finish a tough assignment
and ended up going to bed defeated and exhausted. After a good night's sleep, I solved the same hard problem
in a few minutes.
Move mountains
Be healthy, eat right, and have all meals. Snack healthy, with the occasional treat. Sipping on a cup of tea gives
great focus while studying. Work out at least three times a week. Swimming, yoga, dance, or a run outside. Walk
or bike to CMU every day if you can.
My wife, Rafaela was my biggest source of strength and motivation. She had access to the CMU facilities and
enjoyed every special lecture and event. With her support, I was able to keep discipline, and good habits and was
ready to take on any challenge. Invite a friend to join you in your healthy routine.
Good job Andrew
Enjoy Pittsburgh and CMU perks. After working Saturday mornings at CMU, I would go for a swim with Rafaela
and walk to the Carnegie Museum of Art for lunch and appreciate some art. Other times, we would walk to
Phipps Botanical Gardens and admire their exhibits while enjoying tropical weather while snowing outside. I was
then ready to go back to CMU and meet my group, refreshed and full of ideas.
Sunday mornings, we would hike at Frick Park and then have lunch at Noodlehead. After a short walk in
Shadyside and a cup of espresso, I was ready to work the remainder of the afternoon and set myself up for a
successful week. If there was a nice movie showing in Squirrel Hill, we would do that too.
Certain je ne sais quoi
Art can inspire. I believe there are three ways to solve hard problems and a combination of them is common:
1. Brute Force - usually bad, since it can easily turn into demoralizing mind-numbing trial and error
2. Research - usually great and principled—sarcastically, "A month in the laboratory can often save an hour in the
library." — Frank Westheimer
3. Creativity. - is what sparks breakthroughs. The inspired solutions: the cleanest, simplest, most obvious(after
the fact), and impactful. Being able to see the whole with clarity, and connecting disparate areas is what sets
great engineers and scientists apart. If you walk out of a museum looking for your sketchbook to write or draw
an idea, art has done its job.

There is always tomorrow
But do not procrastinate. Even assignments that look easy will get harder as you progress, and consume all the
allotted time. As soon as an assignment is out, download it and skim through it. Understand if it is self-contained
and download any additional resources needed and code.
The next day, read it and get a solid understanding of the theory behind it, before trying to solve it. The following
day, familiarize yourself with the code, data structures, functions, methods, and libraries. Run unit tests and
operated code manually like turning knobs to understand its inputs and outputs.
Solve any theory questions and code logic on pen and paper first. Only after you think that you have a solution,
code it up. Type answers to the assignment as you go. That avoids the time to synthesize the whole assignment
at once. Leave it alone for a day. Revise it one more time and submit it. Don’t spend too much time on that last
5% or perfection. Just do the best possible you can, by yourself, and move on to the next task.
Starting any work is the hardest part. But once you start, you will get in the flow. A good habit that writers use is

to stop writing mid-chapter or paragraph. This is counterintuitive, but it is a lot easier to pick something mid-
sentence than to start working on a fresh new task. So when you reach a good point amicable to re-entry—hard

but easy enough—stop it. Write down what your next step should be while your mind is on the problem and
move on. The exception is, if things are flowing like water, thank the universe, and stay at it.
Bookworm
Study smart. The first lecture is when professors will motivate the subject and show where each topic will fit in
over the semester. Keep those things in perspective. Otherwise, you might understand discrete pieces of the
material, and get perfect grades, but go in the wild without knowing what to do with it.
Build a cheat sheet (and get away from slides) keeping concepts summarized and connected. You can make one
for planning, one for control, computer vision, etc. That can also turn into your professional working manual
when you graduate.
There is a bottom-up and a top-down approach to learning. We need both to connect in the middle. Don't get
super too narrow and deep too quickly. Be curious, see the whole, discover, play with it, and connect ideas.
Understand from the basics building up to the hardest and most complex aggregates.
Given a new concept write with plain words your understanding and how would you explain or teach it to a
child(Feynman). Work on a blank paper, organize and connect different concepts and ideas, with diagrams and
arrows. The goal is to get good at confronted with a problem, you will know the many ways to solve it.
Read from different sources to improve your intuition. Interleave study and research to be quick on your feet.
Reach out to experienced engineers, roboticists, and CMU professors. I you see a little windowless nook in the
basement, peek inside and you might find an amazing PhD student working on cutting-edge material and eager
to share their work.

Think like a roboticist (or in your area) and let curiosity drive your studies. Pretend you are designing, building,
and controlling an autonomous mobile base with a manipulator. As you learn new concepts in any subject, think
about where they fit in your robot.
Hardware rules. Autonomy rules. There is nothing like implementing software on a real autonomous robot. Some
unknowns (perception, friction and binding forces, encoder wraparounds) will never happen the same way or at
all in simulation. I went to CMU wanting to develop real robots. At every first lecture, I asked the professor, “Can
I use a robot or build a robot for this class?”. The answer was always a resounding “yes!”. Know what you want
and ask for it.
Be persistent. There will be a point when ideas will start repeating themselves and you will realize that you start
seeing the whole and knowing what you do. You are beginning to become a master of your art.

Many hats
Work on everything every day and be ready for context changes. Be a pro and work like a pro. Make sure all
assignments are being worked on, with total focus, at different stages. Don’t get stuck on one thing. Keep them
organized. I use physical binders with neat lecture notes, printouts, and to-dos.
It is not enough to stick a bunch of smart people in the room and expect great work to happen. Facilitate and
empower your team to have a clear direction. Keep the ball rolling on every front, and work every chance you
have to move an inch forward. Hard Work is like compound interest(Randy Pausch). The ability to change context
and perform at your best alone and in a team will transfer to your career.
Laws of Motion
Keep moving. About every 45 to 60 minutes take a break from studying, and go for a walk(Pomodoro Technique).
Leave the problem alone for a while and you might crack it a few minutes after walking away from it. Stretch
your legs, your body. It will ground you, refresh your mind, and remind you that you are still living in the real
world. Power naps and breathing exercises are great too!
Walk through different schools at CMU and you will meet amazing people. You might also have serendipitous
encounters like when I bumped into Red Whittaker at Gates Cafe... Ok, what happened was that when I saw him
having his Greek yogurt, I walked unsuspectingly, across the whole thing with my Greek yogurt and sat but his
side. He opened a big smile and we had a conversation of a lifetime.
Fundamentals are fundamental
Don’t be a hacker. Learn the fundamentals* and be principled. It is so refreshing to collaborate with someone
who just knows it. No guessing, no pretending. Be that person. It will keep your head over the water during class,
reinforcing familiar material, and freeing you up to absorb new ones. When you find gaps in your learning, jump
right into it. Keep learning every chance you get. While standing in line for 5 minutes, pull your phone up and
quickly check on some lingering topic.
In software, most people will reach for a library or framework that abstracts everything away—a computer
science tic. In many cases, those abstractions sit on top of awful layers of planet-warming cross-dependent
complexities running slow and inefficient code, another CS tic. I understand better looking under the hood. “Hey
look, it’s that algorithm exactly as we learned in SLAM. Now we know what’s going on and we can do better”. Be
brave, open the hood, and save our planet.
* https://mrsd.ri.cmu.edu/skill-set/
Shiny objects
Robotics is a rich field with a lot of breadth and interesting topics. But is noisy and full of hype. Be attentive and
discerning. Think with your head and don’t ignore whole bodies of work that are principled and proven to work.
Neural Networks are great, but understanding traditional AI will take you farther than spending your whole time
fiddling with a black box. I enjoyed Prof. Srinivasa’s computer vision class, where he taught us fundamental
methods of computer vision so that we understood what was going on under the hood of a neural network,
which he taught us at the end of the course.
Only one you
Don’t fake it, just make it. Be genuine. Be truthful. Be yourself. Confidence goes a long way and you have to
believe in yourself. But integrity goes further. Don’t pretend to be someone else. Don’t duckspeak a sequence of
jargon strung together void of any meaning (1984, Orwell).
People will see right through it. Speak with knowledge, clearly, and simply. If you can teach a subject, then you
know it. It is liberating and people will want to work with you every time.

Force of nature
Be positive. There is a lot of negativity out there and people capitalizing on the doom and gloom. If you let that
drive you it will be hard to be functional. The world is messed up. But in the long term is only getting better. Your
job now is to be a student. Focus on your goals, be curious, and learn as much as you can with awe.
Being in a robotics program at CMU is a privilege granted to very few. We have a responsibility to make the best
of it and share this unique, rare, and powerful knowledge with the World. Try to grow smarter and stronger, so
that you will make the most impact and perhaps, even help solve wicked problems such as poverty, inequality,
violence, fanaticism, and prejudice in the world. Enjoy this amazing moment in your life. Dream big. Be kind to
your peers. Leave your ego outside the door and prove that the good ones can win. This is the Carnegie Mellon
philosophy.
Infinity and beyond
These principles should transfer to your career and life. The only grade out there will be the fruit of your work
and kindness. Learn to work unconstrained and unbounded. Listen carefully and learn to see with your own eyes.
Understand the goals, and the challenges ahead of you, and solve them in the most humane, efficient, and
elegant way. Be brave, be fair, and make yourself heard.
Life is a sequence of ups and downs. No matter how dire or boring something looks, always throw your whole
self at it. You build a string of achievements big and small. There is no final destination. Just enjoy the ride and
leave things better than before.
Go out to build robots and systems that will help people. If you fail, there is always tomorrow. So at night, sleep
with a clean conscience, and be ready for another day.
Sweet dreams!
Paulo Camasmie
MRSD Class of 2020
CEO and Roboticist
Symbol Robotics Inc.